datasets/README.md, before:

# Datasets

Goal: Choose a dataset with sufficient interesting variables (number of columns) and decently large sample size (number of rows). Think about what questions you could potentially answer or explore with the dataset. Pick things that you find interesting and will be motivated to explore in depth.

- [AP exams](AP_Exams) [SE]
    - AP test scores across subjects and stratified by various demographics (e.g. gender) and by state: https://research.collegeboard.org/programs/ap/data/participation/ap-2018
- [Birthdays](birthdays) [SE]
- Bob Ross
    - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/bob-ross
- Boston Marathon results
    - https://www.kaggle.com/rojour/boston-results
- [Candy rankings](candy_rankings) [SE]
- Census Data from 1994
    - https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Adult
- [College majors](college_majors) [SE]
  - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/college-majors (majors for college, master, and grad school)
  - https://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=37 (number of students by field of study, race, and time for Bachelor, Masters, and Doctors)
  - https://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/catalog/colleges-universities.html (variety of data and statistics for college)  
- College student food and cooking preferences
    - https://www.kaggle.com/borapajo/food-choice
- Comic characters
  - https://datahub.io/five-thirty-eight/comic-characters (comic book characters and their demographic features)
  - https://www.kaggle.com/claudiodavi/superhero-set#super_hero_powers.csv (powers by comic book character)
  - https://www.kaggle.com/thec03u5/complete-superhero-dataset (powers and demographic features by comic book character)
- Comma Survey
    - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/comma-survey
- [Fandango movie rankings](fandango_movie_rankings) [SE]
- [Faunalytics Vegetarian dataset](faunalytics_veg_study) [SE]
- [Food of the World](food_of_the_world) [SE]
- [Gene expression x dermatology](gene_expression_derm/):
- [Great Lakes beach cleanup](greatLakes_beach_cleanup) [SE]
- [Great Lakes weather](greatLakes_weather) [SE]
* [Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Projects](greatLakes_restoration_initiative): Information about funding since 2010 for 16 different federal organizations to address threats to the Great Lakes ecosystem (pollution, invasive species management, algal blooms, habitat restoration, safe drinking water). See `GreatLakesRestorationInitiative_AllProjects.xlsx`.
- Health, nutrition, and population statistics
    - https://www.kaggle.com/theworldbank/health-nutrition-and-population-statistics
- High school student performance in exams
    - https://www.kaggle.com/spscientist/students-performance-in-exams
- [Homeownership in the U.S.](homeownership_US)
    - Homeownership by age group from the U.S. Census Bureau, 1982-2018. See `us_homeownership_1982to2018_thousands.csv` or `us_homeownership_1982to2018_thousands_long.csv`.
- IMDB data from last 10 years
    - https://www.kaggle.com/PromptCloudHQ/imdb-data/data
- [Internet trends survey 2018](internet_trends)
    - This dataset contains questions about social media use in 2018 and attitudes toward the internet and whether Americans think it’s good or bad for society. See `pew_internet_core_trends_survey.csv`, along with the key and full questionnaire.
- Measuring Fashion 2018
    - Environmental impact of the global apparel and footwear industries study, [see the full report here](https://quantis-intl.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/measuringfashion_globalimpactstudy_full-report_quantis_cwf_2018a.pdf).
- Mental health in tech survey
    - https://www.kaggle.com/osmi/mental-health-in-tech-survey
- [Music: Billboard Hot 100 singles & Spotify audio features](music_billboard_hot_100)
- Open Policing
    - Standardized data on vehicle and pedestrian stops from law enforcement departments across the country. [Browse for datasets by location here](https://openpolicing.stanford.edu/data/).
- Social media use and adolescent mental health
    - Data was collected and analyzed in a publication, but may be interesting for re-analysis/asking different questions. [Find the journal article and tables here.](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/article-abstract/2749480)
- Star wars
  - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/blob/master/star-wars-survey/StarWars.csv (questionnaires for Star Wars fans)
  - https://morningconsult.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/171116_crosstabs_BRANDS_v1_DK-2.pdf (an assortment of yes or no questions on star wars by demographic features and/or political affiliation)
  - https://rdrr.io/cran/dplyr/man/starwars.html (demographic features for 87 characters)
  - https://www.kaggle.com/xvivancos/star-wars-movie-scripts (dialogue of characters for the original Star Wars movies)
- [Thanksgiving foods from 2015](thanksgiving_foods) [SE]
- [US weather](US_weather) [SE]
- [World Bank indicators](world_bank_indicators)
    - Information about economics, education, climate change, gender equality, health, and land use over time across the globe. Browse different indicators [here]() and see the excel sheet `WorldBankIndicator_ForestedLandArea.xlsx` for example.
- World Health Organization US Mortality Rates by County (1980-2014)
    - https://www.kaggle.com/IHME/us-countylevel-mortality
- [World happiness](world_happiness)
    - rank and scores by country 2015, 2016, 2017
    - https://www.kaggle.com/unsdsn/world-happiness
- Zillow: Rent affordability, housing price-to-income ratios, housing aspirations, plus predictions about homes at risk due to rising sea levels (see [article](https://www.zillow.com/research/ocean-at-the-door-21931/) and [dataset](http://files.zillowstatic.com/research/public/StaticFiles/RisingSeas/RisingSeas_2018-11.csv)). Link to explore/download datasets [here](https://www.zillow.com/research/data/).

## Additional datasets

You're welcome to find a dataset not on the above list, but you will need to get it approved by a Facilitator.
More potential datasets can be found here:
- [additonal datasets](additional_datasets.md)
- [github.com/fivethirtyeight](https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/)
- [LIT research group](http://lit.eecs.umich.edu/downloads.html#undefined)

Commit message:

Add instructions: How to import a CSV file from GitHub in Python

datasets/README.md, after:

# Capstone Project Datasets

## How to import a CSV file from GitHub in Python

Everyone will use the same `url` to this repository, then append a `filepath` for your dataset. 
For example, if you're using the [AP_exams](AP_exams) dataset, your filepath would be `AP_exams/ap_exams_MI_2018.csv`.

#### Example

```python
url = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GWC-DCMB/CapstoneProject/master/datasets/"
filepath = "AP_exams/ap_exams_MI_2018.csv"
data = pd.read_csv(filepath)
```

Be sure to update the `filepath` variable for your specific dataset!
You also may want to rename the `data` variable to something that's more descriptive for your dataset.

## Datasets

Goal: Choose a dataset with sufficient interesting variables (number of columns) and decently large sample size (number of rows). Think about what questions you could potentially answer or explore with the dataset. Pick things that you find interesting and will be motivated to explore in depth.

- [AP exams](AP_Exams) [SE]
    - AP test scores across subjects and stratified by various demographics (e.g. gender) and by state: https://research.collegeboard.org/programs/ap/data/participation/ap-2018
- [Birthdays](birthdays) [SE]
- Bob Ross
    - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/bob-ross
- Boston Marathon results
    - https://www.kaggle.com/rojour/boston-results
- [Candy rankings](candy_rankings) [SE]
- Census Data from 1994
    - https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Adult
- [College majors](college_majors) [SE]
  - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/college-majors (majors for college, master, and grad school)
  - https://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=37 (number of students by field of study, race, and time for Bachelor, Masters, and Doctors)
  - https://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/catalog/colleges-universities.html (variety of data and statistics for college)  
- College student food and cooking preferences
    - https://www.kaggle.com/borapajo/food-choice
- Comic characters
  - https://datahub.io/five-thirty-eight/comic-characters (comic book characters and their demographic features)
  - https://www.kaggle.com/claudiodavi/superhero-set#super_hero_powers.csv (powers by comic book character)
  - https://www.kaggle.com/thec03u5/complete-superhero-dataset (powers and demographic features by comic book character)
- Comma Survey
    - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/comma-survey
- [Fandango movie rankings](fandango_movie_rankings) [SE]
- [Faunalytics Vegetarian dataset](faunalytics_veg_study) [SE]
- [Food of the World](food_of_the_world) [SE]
- [Gene expression x dermatology](gene_expression_derm/):
- [Great Lakes beach cleanup](greatLakes_beach_cleanup) [SE]
- [Great Lakes weather](greatLakes_weather) [SE]
* [Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Projects](greatLakes_restoration_initiative): Information about funding since 2010 for 16 different federal organizations to address threats to the Great Lakes ecosystem (pollution, invasive species management, algal blooms, habitat restoration, safe drinking water). See `GreatLakesRestorationInitiative_AllProjects.xlsx`.
- Health, nutrition, and population statistics
    - https://www.kaggle.com/theworldbank/health-nutrition-and-population-statistics
- High school student performance in exams
    - https://www.kaggle.com/spscientist/students-performance-in-exams
- [Homeownership in the U.S.](homeownership_US)
    - Homeownership by age group from the U.S. Census Bureau, 1982-2018. See `us_homeownership_1982to2018_thousands.csv` or `us_homeownership_1982to2018_thousands_long.csv`.
- IMDB data from last 10 years
    - https://www.kaggle.com/PromptCloudHQ/imdb-data/data
- [Internet trends survey 2018](internet_trends)
    - This dataset contains questions about social media use in 2018 and attitudes toward the internet and whether Americans think it’s good or bad for society. See `pew_internet_core_trends_survey.csv`, along with the key and full questionnaire.
- Measuring Fashion 2018
    - Environmental impact of the global apparel and footwear industries study, [see the full report here](https://quantis-intl.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/measuringfashion_globalimpactstudy_full-report_quantis_cwf_2018a.pdf).
- Mental health in tech survey
    - https://www.kaggle.com/osmi/mental-health-in-tech-survey
- [Music: Billboard Hot 100 singles & Spotify audio features](music_billboard_hot_100)
- Open Policing
    - Standardized data on vehicle and pedestrian stops from law enforcement departments across the country. [Browse for datasets by location here](https://openpolicing.stanford.edu/data/).
- Social media use and adolescent mental health
    - Data was collected and analyzed in a publication, but may be interesting for re-analysis/asking different questions. [Find the journal article and tables here.](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapsychiatry/article-abstract/2749480)
- Star wars
  - https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/blob/master/star-wars-survey/StarWars.csv (questionnaires for Star Wars fans)
  - https://morningconsult.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/171116_crosstabs_BRANDS_v1_DK-2.pdf (an assortment of yes or no questions on star wars by demographic features and/or political affiliation)
  - https://rdrr.io/cran/dplyr/man/starwars.html (demographic features for 87 characters)
  - https://www.kaggle.com/xvivancos/star-wars-movie-scripts (dialogue of characters for the original Star Wars movies)
- [Thanksgiving foods from 2015](thanksgiving_foods) [SE]
- [US weather](US_weather) [SE]
- [World Bank indicators](world_bank_indicators)
    - Information about economics, education, climate change, gender equality, health, and land use over time across the globe. Browse different indicators [here]() and see the excel sheet `WorldBankIndicator_ForestedLandArea.xlsx` for example.
- World Health Organization US Mortality Rates by County (1980-2014)
    - https://www.kaggle.com/IHME/us-countylevel-mortality
- [World happiness](world_happiness)
    - rank and scores by country 2015, 2016, 2017
    - https://www.kaggle.com/unsdsn/world-happiness
- Zillow: Rent affordability, housing price-to-income ratios, housing aspirations, plus predictions about homes at risk due to rising sea levels (see [article](https://www.zillow.com/research/ocean-at-the-door-21931/) and [dataset](http://files.zillowstatic.com/research/public/StaticFiles/RisingSeas/RisingSeas_2018-11.csv)). Link to explore/download datasets [here](https://www.zillow.com/research/data/).

## Additional datasets

You're welcome to find a dataset not on the above list, but you will need to get it approved by a Facilitator.
More potential datasets can be found here:
- [additonal datasets](additional_datasets.md)
- [github.com/fivethirtyeight](https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/)
- [LIT research group](http://lit.eecs.umich.edu/downloads.html#undefined)
